Add release notes for 2.7.10 (#8269)
PrefectHQ/prefect: RELEASE-NOTES.md

# Prefect Release Notes

## Release 2.7.10

> ### Enhancements

Reviewer: It looks like we're missing all the cancellation related work?

Author: Yes, it's in my description as in progress :)

> - Add `is_schedule_active` option to `Deployment` class to allow control of automatic scheduling — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/7430

Author: ```suggestion
- Add [`is_schedule_active` option](https://docs.prefect.io/api-ref/prefect/deployments/#prefect.deployments.Deployment) to `Deployment` class to allow control of automatic scheduling — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/7430
```

- Add documentation links to blocks in UI — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8210
- Add Kubernetes kube-system permissions to Prefect agent template for retrieving UUID from kube-system namespace — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8205

> - Enhance security of secrets in blocks UI by incorporating secret fields in blocks' schema — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8246

Author: ```suggestion
- Enhance security of secrets to blocks in UI by incorporating secret fields in blocks' schema — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8246
```

> - Enhance security of secrets to blocks in UI by incorporating secret fields in blocks' schema — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8246

Reviewer: What does this actually do? Sounds like this does something like "Add support for obfuscation of secrets in nested block fields"

> - Enhance security of secrets to blocks in UI by incorporating secret fields in blocks' schema — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8246

Author: ```suggestion
- Add support for obscuring secrets in nested block fields in the UI to enhance the security of the blocks. — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8246
```

> - Add consolidation and manual dispatch of multi-arch Docker build and publish logic — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/7902

Reviewer: This can be retitled to emphasize that it is enabling publish of multiarch docker builds on release. No need to cover the maintenance parts like consolidation and manual dispatch.

> - Add consolidation and manual dispatch of multi-arch Docker build and publish logic — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/7902

Author: ```suggestion
- Add the capability to publish multi-architecture Docker builds on release — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/7902
```

### Experimental
- Add functionality to specify a work pool when starting an agent — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8222
- Disable `Work Queues` tab view when work pools are enabled — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8257
- Fix property for `WorkersTable` in UI — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8232

### Documentation

> - Add Prefect Cloud Quickstart tutorial — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8227

Author: ```suggestion
- [Add Prefect Cloud Quickstart tutorial](https://docs.prefect.io/ui/cloud-getting-started/) — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8227
```

> - Add [prefect-openai](https://prefecthq.github.io/prefect-openai/) to [Collections catalog](https://docs.prefect.io/collections/catalog/) — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8236

Reviewer: Should be in a `### Collections` section — see other releases for typical format of this message.

- Add `project_urls` to `setup.py` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8224
- Add configuration to `mkdocs.yml` to enable versioning at a future time - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8204

> - Improve contributing documentation with venv instructions — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8247

Author: ```suggestion
- Improve [contributing documentation](https://docs.prefect.io/contributing/overview/) with venv instructions — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8247
```

> - Update documentation on KubernetesJob options — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8261

Author: ```suggestion
- Update documentation on [KubernetesJob options](https://docs.prefect.io/concepts/infrastructure/?h=#kubernetesjob) — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8261
```

> - Update documentation on workspace-level roles — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8263

Author: ```suggestion
- Update documentation on [workspace-level roles](https://docs.prefect.io/ui/roles/?h=workspace#workspace-level-roles) — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8263
```

> - Update documentation on [KubernetesJob options](https://docs.prefect.io/concepts/infrastructure/?h=#kubernetesjob) — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8261

Author: ```suggestion
- Update documentation on [KubernetesJob options](https://docs.prefect.io/concepts/infrastructure/#kubernetesjob) — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8261
```

> - Update documentation on [workspace-level roles](https://docs.prefect.io/ui/roles/?h=workspace#workspace-level-roles) — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8263

Reviewer: Did you mean to include the highlight (h=...) in these urls?

Author: I did not

> - Update documentation on [workspace-level roles](https://docs.prefect.io/ui/roles/?h=workspace#workspace-level-roles) — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8263

Author: ```suggestion
- Update documentation on [workspace-level roles](https://docs.prefect.io/ui/roles/#workspace-level-roles) — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8263
```

### Experimental
- Add functionality to specify a work pool when starting an agent — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8222
- Disable `Work Queues` tab view when work pools are enabled — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8257
- Fix property for `WorkersTable` in UI — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8232

### Documentation
- [Add Prefect Cloud Quickstart tutorial](https://docs.prefect.io/ui/cloud-getting-started/) — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8227
- Add `project_urls` to `setup.py` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8224
- Add configuration to `mkdocs.yml` to enable versioning at a future time - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8204
- Improve [contributing documentation](https://docs.prefect.io/contributing/overview/) with venv instructions — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8247
- Update documentation on [KubernetesJob options](https://docs.prefect.io/concepts/infrastructure/#kubernetesjob) — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8261
- Update documentation on [workspace-level roles](https://docs.prefect.io/ui/roles/#workspace-level-roles) — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8263

### Collections

> - Add [prefect-openai](https://prefecthq.github.io/prefect-openai/) to [Collections catalog](https://docs.prefect.io/collections/catalog/) — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8236

Author: @ahuang11 @zzstoatzz Is there anything else we an add here?

# Prefect Release Notes

## Release 2.7.10

### Enhancements
- chore: add k8s kube-system permissions to prefect agent template — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8205
- Add `is_schedule_active` to client `Deployment` class — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/7430
- Consolidate multi-arch docker builds — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/7902

### Fixes
- Fix incorrect prop for WorkersTable — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8232
- Include nested `pydantic.BaseModel` secret fields in blocks' schema — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8246

### Experimental
- Makes agents work pool aware — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8222
- Adds migration logic for work pools — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8214
- Removes migration logic — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8255
- Small work pools UI updates — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8257

### Documentation

> - Add `prefect-openai` to Collections catalog — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8236

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add [`prefect-openai`](https://prefecthq.github.io/prefect-openai/) to Collections catalog — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8236
```

- Fix broken link and generally standardize links on home page — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8229
- Add blocks documentation URLs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8210
- Updates deployments docstring to match behavior — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8233
- Add `project_urls` to `setup.py` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8224
- Improve contributing documentation with venv instructions — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8247
- Update KubernetesJob options — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8261
- Add Prefect Cloud Quickstart tutorial — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8227

> - Update roles and permissions in documentation — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8263

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Update roles and permissions in documentation — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8263
- Add configuration to mkdocs.yml to enable versioning at a future time - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8204
```

# Prefect Release Notes

## Release 2.7.10

### Enhanced flow run cancellation
We're excited to announce an upgrade to our flow run cancellation feature, giving you even more control over your workflow!

We've enhanced our flow run cancellation process to ensure a smooth and efficient shutdown. When a cancellation is requested, the flow run is immediately transitioned to a "Cancelling" state. The agent detects this change and promptly sends a signal to the flow run infrastructure requesting termination. To guarantee a timely exit, the infrastructure will be forcefully terminated if it does not shut down within a customizable grace period (default of 30 seconds).

We've also added a service to cleanup unfinished tasks and subflows from recently cancelled flow runs, as well as actively running subflows belonging to a cancelled flow run. Task cancellation can handle 100 active tasks at a time per cancelled flow run.

### Enhancements
- Add [`is_schedule_active` option](https://docs.prefect.io/api-ref/prefect/deployments/#prefect.deployments.Deployment) to `Deployment` class to allow control of automatic scheduling — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/7430

> - Add ability to restart Kubernetes job events watch by allowing `KubernetesJob._watch_job` to track long-running jobs - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8189

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Add ability to track long-running Kubernetes jobs by restarting the job event stream in `KubernetesJob._watch_job` - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8189
```
maybe, since from a user perspective, the ability they care about is running long jobs

Author: that's a better phrasing, thanks!

### Enhancements
- Add [`is_schedule_active` option](https://docs.prefect.io/api-ref/prefect/deployments/#prefect.deployments.Deployment) to `Deployment` class to allow control of automatic scheduling — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/7430
- Add ability to track long-running Kubernetes jobs by restarting the job event stream in `KubernetesJob._watch_job` - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8189
- Add documentation links to blocks in UI — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8210
- Add Kubernetes kube-system permissions to Prefect agent template for retrieving UUID from kube-system namespace — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8205
- Add support for obscuring secrets in nested block fields in the UI — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8246
- Enable publish of multiarchitecture Docker builds on release — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/7902
- Add `CANCELLING` state type — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/7794
- Add graceful shutdown of engine on `SIGTERM` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/7887
- Add cancellation cleanup service — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8093

> - Add `PREFECT_ORION_API_KEEPALIVE_TIMEOUT` setting to allow configuration of Uvicorn `timeout-keep-alive` setting - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8190

Reviewer: 👍 t=nice

- Fix property for `WorkersTable` in UI — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8232
### Documentation
- [Add Prefect Cloud Quickstart tutorial](https://docs.prefect.io/ui/cloud-getting-started/) — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8227
- Add `project_urls` to `setup.py` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8224
- Add configuration to `mkdocs.yml` to enable versioning at a future time - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8204
- Improve [contributing documentation](https://docs.prefect.io/contributing/overview/) with venv instructions — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8247
- Update documentation on [KubernetesJob options](https://docs.prefect.io/concepts/infrastructure/#kubernetesjob) — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8261
- Update documentation on [workspace-level roles](https://docs.prefect.io/ui/roles/#workspace-level-roles) — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8263

### Collections
- Add [prefect-openai](https://prefecthq.github.io/prefect-openai/) to [Collections catalog](https://docs.prefect.io/collections/catalog/) — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8236

> ### Contributors

Reviewer: Looks like imsurat the contributor from #8190 is missing

This should provide a significant speedup to anyone running containers on ARM64 machines (I'm looking at you, Apple M1 chips!) and reduce the complexity for our users that are deploying on different platforms. The workflow for building our images was rewritten from scratch, and it'll be easy for us to expand support to include other common platforms.

> Shoutout to [@ddelange](https://github.com/ddelange) who led implementation of the feature.

Reviewer: Dude I keep doing this 🤦‍♀️ lol thanks

- Add Kubernetes kube-system permissions to Prefect agent template for retrieving UUID from kube-system namespace — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8205
- Add support for obscuring secrets in nested block fields in the UI — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8246
- Enable publish of multiarchitecture Docker builds on release — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/7902
- Add `CANCELLING` state type — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/7794
- Add graceful shutdown of engine on `SIGTERM` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/7887
- Add cancellation cleanup service — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8093
- Add PREFECT_ORION_API_KEEPALIVE_TIMEOUT setting to allow configuration of Uvicorn timeout-keep-alive setting - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8190
### Experimental
- Add functionality to specify a work pool when starting an agent — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8222
- Disable `Work Queues` tab view when work pools are enabled — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8257
- Fix property for `WorkersTable` in UI — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8232

> - Add compatibility with 2.7.8 client by filtering out the work_pool_queue_name field in deployments API requests - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/8272

Reviewer: I'd place in the fixes and we don't need to go into that much detail, just that we are fixing compatibility with 2.7.8 clients when creating deployments is sufficient.
